feat: ADR for design of a License Credential (#177)
allinbits/cosmos-cash: docs/Explanation/ADR/adr-003-issuer.md

# ADR 003: Cosmos Cash Issuance model

## Changelog

* 29-Jul-2021: Initial Draft

## Status

DRAFT - Not Implemented

---

## Abstract

In order to issue a payment token a regulatory compliant issuer module is required. This must be able to 

* Initialize an issuer and a payment token
* Mint/Burn tokens
* Freeze/Unfreeze accounts
* Rescue funds from frozen accounts
* Pause/Unpause token circulation

> This functionality will use Role Based Access based on Verifiable Credentials with blocklists maintained through the use of revocation lists.

Author: response: yes, we should use RBAC here.

Regulators and issuers are issued licenses through a regulator or other government body. The licenses then permit the holder to perform certain activities such as hold client money etc. In the UK the [FCA register](https://register.fca.org.uk/s/) acts as public record of licensed entities and the services they can provide. For example, this the record for [UBS AG](https://register.fca.org.uk/s/firm?id=001b000000MfHZiAAN)

---

## Decision

WE SHALL implement an Issuer module with functionality similar to those shown by Tether and USDC. This module will have the following functionality:

* Create an issuer and a payment token
* Mint/Burn tokens
* Pause/Unpause token circulation
* Set an upper bound on token circulation
* Set a fee rate
* Rescue funds from frozen accounts

### Actors

There SHALL BE the following actors with permissions actions:

* **Regulator** - this actor SHALL HAVE permissions to 
    * Create/Revoke an issuer.
    * Set/update an upper bound on total amount of tokens in circulation.
* **Issuer** - this actor SHALL HAVE permissions to
    * Mint/Burn tokens
    * Pause/Unpause tokens in circulation
    * Redeem tokens from block listed address 

### DID

> The Regulator and the Issuer Decentralized Identity Document (DID) SHALL HAVE multiple DID controllers. For an Issuer these represent the different functions within a financial insitutions - Operations, Compliance etc. This SHALL support multiple signing such that `Pause/Unpause` requires two parties to make the change. This would mimic a case where Operations would request the pause and Compliance or a Senior Manager would approve the action.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Regulator and the Issuer Decentralized Identifier Document (DID) SHALL HAVE multiple DID controllers. For an Issuer these represent the different functions within a financial insitutions - Operations, Compliance etc. This SHALL support multiple signing such that `Pause/Unpause` requires two parties to make the change. This would mimic a case where Operations would request the pause and Compliance or a Senior Manager would approve the action.
```

Likewise, the Regulator DID will also have multiple controllers with multi-signatories required for creating/removing an issuer and setting circulation bounds

### Verifiable Credentials

The functionality SHALL USE Verifiable Credentials to establish Role Based Access to functions. See [ADR-OO5 License Credential](https://github.com/allinbits/cosmos-cash/blob/main/docs/Explanation/ADR/adr-005-license-credential.md) for further details regarding issuance, revocation etc.

### Setting up an issuer

* A Regulator actor WILL BE defined. 
* This Regulator WILL ISSUE signed license verifiable credentials to an Issuer.

> * The Regulator address SHALL BE defined in Genesis

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The Regulator DID document SHALL BE defined in Genesis
```
